python is hight level interpreted ,general purpose programming language that is known for its simplility
readbiliity and flexibility
it was created by guido van rossum and first released in 1991

-:Key Features of Python :-
Simple & Readable
Code looks like English, so it is easy to learn and maintain.

Interpreted Language
No compilation step. Code runs line by line.

Cross-Platform
Works on Windows, Mac, Linux without changes.

Large Standard Library
Provides built-in support for file handling, regex, networking, JSON, etc.

Dynamically Typed
You don’t need to declare data types.

Extensible & Embedded
You can write Python inside C/C++ or call C/C++ from Python.

Memory Management through Garbage Collection
Python has an automatic garbage collector to free unused memory.

Portable Write once, run anywhere.

Strong Community Support
Large number of developers and libraries available.

Advantages:
Easy to learn and read
Interpreted & cross-platform	
Large standard library	
Strong community support	
Rapid development	
Great for AI, ML, and Data Science	

Disadvantages:
Slower execution speed
High memory usage
Not ideal for mobile development
Runtime errors possible
Weak in multi-threading
Weak in multi-threading
Slower database access

comment:-
A comment in Python is a line of text ignored by the interpreter.
It is used only for humans to read and understand the code, not for Python to execute.
A comment is a piece of text in a program that starts with the symbol # or is enclosed
in triple quotes (''' or """), used to explain the code.

 

What is PEP 8?
PEP 8 is the official style guide for writing clean and readable Python code.
It defines rules for how Python code should be formatted so all developers follow a consistent style.



PEP = Python Enhancement Proposal.
PEP 8 defines coding standards (indentation, naming, spacing).


What PEP 8 includes:
4 spaces for indentation
Snake_case for variables and functions
CamelCase for classes
Limit lines to 79 characters
Proper spacing around operators
Meaningful names

2. What is a Virtual Environment?

A virtual environment (venv) is an isolated Python workspace that contains its own Python version and libraries.
It allows multiple projects to run different dependencies without conflicts.

points:
Helps avoid version mismatches
Keeps project libraries separate
Allows clean and reproducible setups
Used heavily in web, ML, and automation projects


3. What are Modules and Packages?
A module is a single Python file (.py) that contains code — functions, variables, or classes.

A package is a collection of multiple modules organized in a folder with an __init__.py file.

"A module is one file, a package is a folder containing multiple related modules."




Variable:
a variable acts like a container or box that holds some data
 (number, text, list, etc.) which can change during program execution.
 ex:
x = 10
y = 20
name = "satish"

print(x)
print(y)
print(name)

Variable names follow some rule:
Must start with a letter or underscore 
Cannot start with a number	
Can contain letters, numbers, and underscores	
Are case-sensitive	Age and age are different
Cannot use Python keywords like if, for, class, etc





